Hello there.
In this semester, I am thinking of creating a souls-like game mainly based on a simple combat system with a few enemies utilizing the AI features of unreal engine 5.

I have used Unreal Engine v5.6 for this project. 

Basic controls:-
Control			Keyboard & Mouse		Controller/Gamepad
Movement		  WASD/Arrow Keys		  Left Thumb Stick
Basic Attack		  Left Mouse Button		  Right Shoulder Button(R1/RB)
Camera 			  Mouse Look			  Right Thumb Stick
Jump			  Spacebar			  Front Face Bottom Button(Cross/X)
Dodge			  Left Control			  Front Face Right Button(Circle/B)
Lock-Camera		  Middle Mouse Button		  Right Thumb Stick Click(R3/RS)
Heal			  V				  D-Pad Down arrow
Buff Potion		  C				  D-Pad Right arrow

Initial Features done in Proof of Concept:-
1. Movement in all directions, including walk, dodging and jumping.
2. Basic Attack.
3. Basic Enemy AI which chases the player and attacks if in range.
4. Health and Stamina system along with a HUD.
5. A Boss Enemy with a basic attack and a heavy attack.
6. Lock-On Camera System.

Final State of the Game:-
1. Can be played entirely with both Keyboard and Mouse as well as a Gamepad/Controller.
2. Starts from the Main Menu and contains different scenes for Information, GameScene and EndCredits.
3. Has Specific music for each scenes and a boss battle music for when the boss fight starts, as well as sound effects to weapon pickup, sword slashes, sword impact etc.
4. Improved Gameplay with a healing and buff potion using system.
5. Framerate is stable for most part but drops during the boss fight.
6. Improved UI System for boss battle.
7. Assets for player and enemies is setup accordingly.
8. Environment a.k.a World is imported to the Gameplay Level.

Missing features from initial design:-
1. Stealth Assassination i.e. Backstab to enemies when undetected.
2. Special Attack/Magic Attack.
3. Enemy variety. Only has Basic Enemy and Boss Enemy as of now.
4. An interact system to inspect and pickup items.

Challenges Faced/ Issues Occurred:-
1. Main issue was the lack of usable assets for free. I struggled to find a World asset which could be pushed to GitHub and fit the aesthetics the game needed.
2. Animation Mapping to Characters: Found it difficult to Assign Animations to the enemy assets that I had previously thought of using.
3. Bad Time Management: Should have already planned ahead with a time schedule for each feature and each mechanism.
4. Performance Issue: Could not optimise the game as well as I wanted it to be. Tried to avoid the choppiness using screen space reflections instead of lumen but it was breaking the Navigation System for the Enemy AI.

