What all helped me in this project?

1.How to Create a Souls-Like Game in Unreal Engine 5 - Full Course by Gorka Games in YouTube (https://youtu.be/Hs2sM7eFf6Q)
  This tutorial served as a basic guide for me to implement the basic gameplay mechanics required for the project. 

2.Fab Marketplace
  Fab was the main asset provider for the project. It helped me get free assets compatible for the engine version. 


Development Process:-

1. Initial design was to build a simple combat game similar the souls games by From Software.
2. Core gameplay features like movement, combat(attacks and dodging), Health and Stamina systems were implemented mainly using Blueprints and Blueprint Components.
3. Enemy AI was created using Blackboard and Behaviour Tree present in Unreal Engine. Separate behaviour trees were used for base enemy and boss enemy.
4. Lock on camera Aim was setup with the help of tutorial video mentioned above.
5. Enemy and Player assets including meshes and animations were found from Fab Marketplace for Unreal Engine.
6. Repeated testing and debugging helped in finding and solving unexpected issues.

Challenges Faced:-
1. Asset Finding:- Most of the assets which I had in mind was not being compatible with my gameplay mechanics. 
		   The worlds which I was more interested to import into the game were too big to push to the GitHub repository.
		   
2. Performance issues:- The game was feeling choppy for mostly the boss fight parts due to heavier load, which was improved by having a smooth framerate ranging from 30-60fps.


3. Overambitious Initial Design:- My initial was quite too big to be done well in this time-frame with limited assets.
				  

Lessons Learned:-
1. Should plan for a project with much more realistic scope than a larger design. Should prioritize core gameplay than advanced features.
2. Finding assets compatible for the game mechanics is much more important than its visual aesthetics.
3. Have more polished features than a lot of buggy features which could make the game frustrating.
4. Consider having a proper time management rather than rushing the development. 


Areas for future improvement:-
1. Expanded enemy variety to make the game more interesting.
2. More combat approaches, like Magic attack, Charged attacks, Parrying system and Special attacks for different weapons.
3. Advanced Inventory and Equipment system: armor system, weapon types and upgrades for equipment.
4. Level Design could be made more interesting.
5. Save/Load system. Could also be a rest site system like in most souls games.
6. Better optimization as well as scalable graphics quality from the game menu.